TWO(2): Duality, the number 2, or the Duad as it was called by the Pythagoreans, represents both diversity and equality or justice. The idea of of diversity originates from the conception of two opposites, such as night and day, good and evil, riches and poverty, joy and pain, love and hate. Yet, at the same time, for the sake of justice and equality, two sides of a question must always be heard, while the existence of such things as brotherhood and love must necessarily be dependent upon the presence of two persons. Thus the Duad also stands for balance, harmony, concord, sympathy, and response. Two points when joined together form the extremities of a line, which, therefore, is the symbol of duality. The number 2, as directly following the Monad, is traditionally associated with women rather than men.

Character Influences: The characteristic of those who are influenced by the number 2 will be that of placidity. They have not the singleness of purpose of those under the Monad and therefore are capable of showing greater consideration for the feelings of others. Implicit justice and a hatred of all forms of selfishness or egotism are among their chief traits. These people will go out of their way to avoid strife and discord, whether it concerns themselves or not. They are very easy to make friends with, and usually become a great success socially because of their ability to sympathize with all types of character.

There are no actively adverse influences of the Duad; the faults sometimes found in those under its influence are mostly passive ones. Number 2 may produce a nature that is too sympathetic, a quality which can degenerate into irresolution or changeability. The great contrasts which it presents to the mind of those swayed by it may create a sense of fatalism and indifference, while the distaste for strife may cause a shirking of all worry and difficulties, and a refusal to shoulder responsibility. Such persons would do well to incorporate with their own a little of the character represented by number 1, thus compensating their natural lack of forcefulness.