THREE(3): The Ternary, the number 3, or the Triad, was esteemed by many ancient philosophers as the perfect number. The Pythagoreans believed in three worlds - the Inferior, the Superior, and the Supreme - while the followers of Socrates and Plato acknowledged three great principles - Matter, Idea, God. The three great virtues necessary for married bliss were considered to be justice, fortitude and prudence. In the Christian religion the Trinity is seen as an outstanding example of the Triad, while the Scriptures tell of three wise men of the East with their offering of three gifts, of three archangels and three godly virtues. Pagan religions abound in threes; victims were led three times round the altar before sacrifice, prayers were repeated three times to ensure their being answered, the priestess of Apollo sat upon a tripod called the "tripod of truth".

There are three dimensions of space - height, length and breadth; three stages of time - past, present and future; three states of matter - solid, liquid and gaseous; and three kingdoms of Nature - animal, vegetable and mineral. The Triad may be said to represent comprehensiveness and fulfilment, and it is symbolized by the triangle - the figure formed by joining three points. Like number 1, it is regarded as being essentially a male number.

Character Influences: Fortitude and freedom are the keynotes of this number. Persons under its influence will usually be forceful and frank, and possess a great talent for "getting on". They will have brilliant successes in all kinds of enterprises and will become especially notable for their organizing ability. Any novel project or invention will hold a tremendous fascination for them, and their knack of making other people see things from their point of view will make them especially successful as salesmen and promoters of new schemes.

They are generally happy, make cheerful companions, and can adapt themselves to any kind of company. Their enthusiasm may incline them to be talkative, but their high spirits are so infectious that their exuberance is welcomed. Optimism is ever present - no one under the Triad will be depressed for long by business or private worries.

The excessive independence exercised by number 3 may cause an attitude of indifference, which sometimes gives offence. Other people's ideas and cherished projects may be too hastily brushed aside by those of the Triad, for the latter are inclined to be solely occupied with their own schemes. Over-confidence often causes spectacular failures, sudden rises to fame and then a startling downfall; while the versatile enthusiasm displayed may give rise to impatience with any matter which is not progressing as quickly as was hoped, resulting in an inability to carry through any one project to the very end. Tenacity and endurance are the two attributes which should be chiefly cultivated.