FOUR(4): The Quaternary, the number 4, or the Tetrad was regarded by many of the ancients as symbolic of truth, while the old Greeks considered it to be the root of all things, as representing what were believed to be the four elements - fire, air, earth and water. It is interesting to note the Pythagoras sometimes referred to the Deity as the Tetrad, or the "four sacred letters", owing to the fact that the name of God was Zeus in Greek. We find the word God represented by four letters in many other languages - Dieu in French; Gott in German; Godt in Dutch; Godh in Danish; Goth in Swedish; Deva in Sanskrit; Dios in Spanish; Deus in Latin; Idio in Italian; and we have our own name, Lord.

The four liberal sciences were considered to be astronomy, geometry, music and arithmetic; man was declared to possess the four properties of mind, science, opinion and sense; and there were the four accepted states of death, judgment, heaven and hell. We have the four winds, four points of the compass and the four seasons. The square symbolizes the Tetrad, and it may be said to stand for solidity and reality.

Character Influences: The number 4 produces the stolid type of character which is unwaveringly loyal and imperturbable in almost all circumstances. Great steadiness and tenacity are displayed in work, honesty and ability for undertaking unpleasant or wearisome tasks being dominant traits of this nature. There is also an implicit obedience to authority, and a meticulous regard for all the conventions.

Friends of those influenced by the Tetrad will find them deep and faithful in their affections, and always ready to appreciate the good side of others rather than to condemn their weaknesses. Forcefulness, will-power and abstemiousness are also present, although number 4 never produces the dogmatic or intolerant type. Practical occupations rather than those requiring great imaginative powers are most suitable for those under the Tetrad.

Clumsiness and an inclination towards dullness are the chief faults of those influenced by the number 4. They may display a certain lack of initiative and excessive conservatism, which refuses to recognize the unconventional or the extraordinary. In consequence, if these people should find themselves in strange surroundings, they are reluctant to adapt themselves and take long to do so. They may also be rather lacking in personal ideals, and therefore incapable of any really great achievement. Some of the dash and independence of number 3 would greatly assist their progress; combined with their natural attribute of steadfastness, it would help them on their way towards spiritual and material success.