FIVE(5): The Quincunx, the number 5, or the Pentad was regarded by the followers of Pythagoras, as well as by Jewish and Arabic philosophers, as the symbol of health. The Egyptians saw in it a mark of prosperity, but on the whole the Pentad seems universally to have symbolized marriage, fecundity and propagation. This belief probably had its origin in the idea of 5 being the union of 3 and 2, or a male and female number. In ancient Rome, its significance was emphasized by the burning of five tapers during the marriage ceremony. Many heathen religions included prayers asking help from five gods to instill five virtues into the hearts of prospective wives.

Mohammedanism preaches five religious duties - prayer, fasting, purification, alms and pilgrimage to Mecca. Our own scriptures contain many indications that the number 5 seems to have been regarded with a particular significance. Benjamin was given five changes of raiment by Joseph; the latter brought five only of his brothers to Pharaoh; and David chose five smooth stones with which to slay the giant Goliath. Moreover, man possesses five senses - sight, hearing, smell, touch and taste; also five digits on each of his hands and feet.

The pentad is represented geometrically by a regular, five-sided plane figure or else by a pyramid. It also takes the shape of a five-pointed star, which is one form of the ancient Seal of Solomon.

Character Influences: Dash and adventure characterize the 5 type. It signifies a very vivacious spirit and an aptitude for undertaking many and varied tasks - although not necessarily with great success. Courage in face of difficulties is generally displayed, while the bodily and mental health are unusually good. Those under the Pentad have many passionate love affairs, for they are very susceptible; but they also make gay and amusing companions to those of their own sex. They are seldom disheartened by adverse circumstances, for they can find happiness and amusement in the most unexpected places. They are very responsive to the feelings of others, and are quick to grasp the significance of a situation and act accordingly. Great explorers and travellers are usually produced by the number 5.

Irresponsibility and rashness are among the adverse significances, and these two faults may be the cause of much unhappiness to others. Although probably sincere at the time, people of the 5 type may embark upon a love affair which they are quick to bring to an end upon meeting a new and perhaps more fascinating companion. They are often lacking in concentration and unable to attend to urgent and commonplace affairs. In consequence, they are sometimes condemned as being unreliable or even untrustworthy. These faults do not lie deep, however, and are the result of thoughtlessness rather than ingrained perversity. The placid and steadying influence of number 2 can do much to counteract the faults of number 5.