SIX(6): The Hexagon, the number 6, or the Hexad is represented geometrically by a six-sided, balanced figure. It is also symbolized by two intersecting triangles known as the Seal of Solomon. By the Jews, six was considered a sacred number, for the world was created in six days. Heathen peoples used the double triangle as a charm to ward off evil spirits; it was also employed to denote the two natures of Jesus Christ, and as such was frequently carved in stone or painted on windows in old monasteries and churches. In Nature we find numerous examples of the hexagonal in the form of crystals, which are a complete and very comprehensive class in themselves. On the whole, the Hexad has always been considered one of the happiest of numbers, since it represents perfect harmony and completion.

Character Influences: Idealism is the chief trait of those who come under the influence of number 6. A desire that all things should work smoothly and that no jarring note should be introduced in to the harmony of life will be uppermost in their minds. In consequence, they will be strictly honest and careful to act in a manner which they consider to be best for the common good. Selfishness, self-indulgence and intolerance are quite foreign to them, and they will be singularly charitable to all those who are in worse circumstances than themselves. Wealth for its own sake will mean little, but the value of it will be appreciated as a means of benefiting others, especially sick persons or those who have the misfortune to be physically defective.

Hexad types are very cheerful and make good companions. As husbands and wives they are faithful and loving. Being fully aware of their responsibilities, they take great care in the upbringing and education of their children. In business life people of the 6 type can be energetic, although they seldom rise to any great position, as they attach but little importance to material gain.

The unfavorable qualities are few. Sometimes they possess excessive idealism, which may cause the 6 type to display, quite unconsciously, an air of superiority which will frequently give offence. Also they may put too little store by monetary success and miss opportunities which would be of great benefit to themselves and their dependants. The fighting spirit, too, may also be lacking to a certain extent, causing a tendency for these people to assume an air of "martyrdom" rather than to stand up for what they know to be right. If it is a fault, they are sometimes too soft-hearted and allow themselves to be imposed upon. Those under the Hexad should cultivate a practical sense, and avoid allowing kind-heartedness to degenerate into softness and weakness.