SEVEN(7): The Septenary, the number 7, or the Heptad is the most interesting and mysterious of the primary numbers. The Pythagoreans held it in particular veneration as being the highest primary number which was complete in itself and incapable of division by any other except 1. To the Greeks and Romans it was the symbol of good fortune, being connected with periodical changes of the moon; while ancient philosophers saw in it the sign of custody, or world government, through the influence of the seven planets. The seven notes in music gave rise to the philosophy of the "harmony of the spheres" and the depiction of the universe as one vast musical scale.

In numerous religions the 7 attained great significance. There were seven Gothic gods; the seven worlds believed in by the Chaldean's; the seven heavens and seven hells of the Mohammedans; and seven degrees of initiation in various Eastern orders. Christian Scriptures abound in sevens. The seventh day is Holy, for on it God rested; the word "Jehovah" itself contains seven letters; there were seven sorrows of the Virgin; seven cardinal sins and virtues; the army of Joshua encircled Jericho seven times on the the seventh day, headed by seven priests bearing seven trumpets; and on the seventh occasion the walls of the city fell.

There were seven plagues of Egypt; seven fat kine and seven lean; and "a just man falleth seven times and riseth up again" we learn in Proverbs. Peter asked of Jesus Christ if he should forgive his brother seven times and the answer was "until seventy times seven". In Revelation we read of seven spirits before the Throne, and the seven stars which are angels of seven Churches. The reader may find innumerable other examples.

Character Influences: The number 7 imparts to its subjects wisdom and discernment. Those who come under its influence are the world's great thinkers, philosophers and writers, of the type called "ascetic", being rigorous in the practise of all forms of self-discipline. Frequently they have to fight to maintain their theories and principles, for they are mentally so long-sighted that they are "ahead of their time", and are often regarded as cranks or reactionaries. They will show great fortitude in the bearing of physical or spiritual pain, and are seldom heard to grumble at misfortune. Pedantry and petty-mindedness are especially distasteful to them, for their love of knowledge lies in the deepest and greatest things of life. Ordinary pleasures and amusements, unless they demand mental exercise which leads into new fields of thought and contemplation, will mean little to these people.

An excessive love of solitude, which may cause morbidness, is the chief danger to those of the 7 type. When they find themselves forced to mix with other people, they often become disgruntled and resentful because of their desire for privacy has not been respected. In consequence, they may become over critical regarding the actions of others, always making mental comparisons with what they themselves consider to be the right course of action.

Moreover, they will frequently refuse to make any practical use of the knowledge which they possess, preferring to store it up and to devote their time to acquiring further knowledge. These people should learn to appreciate the value of friendship, and to develop and make use of their brain power as a means of bringing material success.