EIGHT(8): The Octagon, the number 8, or the Ogdoad was greatly esteemed in ancient Egypt, where it was customary to have eight people in each boat taking part in sacred processions on the Nile. This custom seems to have originated in the belief that there were eight souls saved from the Flood in Noah's Ark. By the mathematical philosophers, the Ogdoad was regarded as the first cube, having six sides and eight angles; and as such signified reality and strength. Being the highest of the even primary numbers, it is the ultimate symbol of balance.

Character Influences: Extreme practicality is the chief trait of those whose influence is number 8. They possess in double strength all the good qualities of number 4. They are infinitely more powerful, and possess a greater will to succeed. Organizing ability and a keen business sense are dominant, and they usually rise to the top of all those occupations which call for quick decisions and the seizing of opportunities. In every sense, these people are fitted to be masters of men, controllers of great concerns.

They have no patience with the inefficient or lazy, and are not given to day-dreaming or extravagant ideas; in direct contrast with 6, their chief interests lie in the world about them rather than in mystical ideas. They are essentially kind-hearted, although their charity is administered with prudence and they actively resent any attempt to take advantage of their good nature. It is not easy for them to fall passionately in love, but they prefer to bestow a faithful and constant affection which can bring about great security, contentment and real happiness.

The 8 type should learn to cultivate imagination. Their intense practical sense may make them tactless and blunt at times, causing distress and resentment in the minds of others. They must also be on their guard against scoffing at all those things of a more or less mystical nature which they cannot understand. They should learn sometimes to have faith rather than to demand proof, to consider rather than to condemn hastily.

Above all, they must avoid the danger of being domineering, which danger may arise from their intense desire for activity and material advancement. A display of greater tolerance and a keener interest in and analysis of other people's view-points are necessary to broaden the vision and to assist the mental progress of those influenced by the Octahedron.